+++
title = "Convert GL.iNet GL-MT6000 Flint 2 router version from China to Global"
date = 2019-11-27
draft = false
[taxonomies]
tags = ["homelab"]
+++

## Motivation

<!-- TODO: motivation -->

As I'm looking a replacement for my now-EOL RT-AX56U, I found Flint 2 and
immediately tempted for it particularly because of it's OpenWRT support (it's
firmware is based on OpenWRT anyway) which allows endless tinkering possibility.
Out of my curiosity, I found the price on their Taobao store is much less (~100
USD) compared to their [global store](https://store.gl-inet.com/) (~160 USD,
although it comes with free shipping). But even with shipping cost added (I use
third party forwarder as there is no direct shipping to my country) it would
still a bit cheaper if I buy from Taobao.

One limitation is that any GL.iNet devices sold on their Taobao are "CN" version
which have their VPN menu in Admin Panel disabled. This is done to comply with
local regulation.

Fortunately, there is a
[guide](https://forum.openwrt.org/t/converting-gl-inet-mt3000-beryl-ax-from-cn-to-global/165159)
to convert this router version (although quite risky). The router version is
determined by `country_code` flag stored in eMMC that will be read by the Admin
Panel app. This post is mostly inspired from that guide, but I will add some
additional context based on my findings with Flint 2.

## Prerequisite

1. Enable SSH. It's recommended to use public key auth which is explained in
   [OpenWRT docs](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-quick-start/sshadministration).

## Step

<!-- TODO: -->

1. The `country_code` flag is stored in `factory_data` partition. However, the
   exact location varies between router model. We can get the location for our
   router by getting the info from the router's `devicetree`.

   ```sh
   hexdump -C /sys/firmware/devicetree/base/gl-hw/factory_data/country_code
   ```

   - line 1 (`0x00` - `0xff`): partition that stores `country_code`
   - line 2 (`0x10` - `0x13`): byte offset of `country_code` in the partition

   For my case it's `/dev/mmcblk0p2` with `x88` byte offset.

2. Check the partition. As it contains hundreds of lines, it's recommended to
   save the output as a text file and open it using a text editor. Please adjust
   the command based on the output you get from step 1.

   ```sh
   hexdump -C /dev/mmcblk0p2 > mmcblk0p2.txt
   ```

   Check according to the byte offset from step 1.

   Filename: `mmcblk0p2.txt`

   ```txt
   ...
   00000080  ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff  43 4e ff ff ff ff ff ff  |........CN......|
   ...
   ```

   As we could see it should be `CN`. We may proceed to update the country code.

3. Update the country code. Please adjust the command based on the output you
   get from step 1.

   ```sh
   echo "US" | dd of=/dev/mmcblk0p2 bs=1 seek=136
   sync
   reboot
   ```

   - `bs=1`: write 1 byte at a time (default is 512 and it would be an issue for
     our case)
   - `seek=136`: `0x88` to decimal = 136

4. If success, the Admin Panel will no longer shows `CN` logo.
